---
layout: post
title: "pyconau 2012"
tags:
 - python
 - pyconau
meta-description: "Pyconau Python Conference Australia 2012"
# Don't change the disqus identifier even if the url changes. It uniquely
# associates comments with the post.
disqus-identifier: "pyconau_2012"
---

## Pyconau 2012 ##

<!-- excerpt start -->

Pyconau is over. I thought it was great to be amongst people as passionate and enthusiatic about the Python language as I am.
Looking back I think that I learned something from each of the presentations, sometimes it wasn't even Python related.

<!-- excerpt end -->

In brief:

* Overall: As one enthusiastic presenter said a lot in their talk: "It's Awesome".
* Venue: Wrest Point Casino. Great location, good facilities.
* Audio/Visual setup: Excellent, really keen to see some of the presentations I missed.
* Event organisation: Excellent
* Quality and diversity of talks: Excellent.
* Low point: I didn't meet anyone else from South Australia. Does anyone use Python in SA?

Captured below are notes I took at the conference that I'll store here for future reference.

I use Python both professionally and as a home as a hobby. My Python use at work is in restricted environments (no interent access - which makes web dev kind of hard and sometime pointess) though I have built some local web tools for the developer community. Mainly it consists of Twisted based application development and recently some systems integration tools production in PyGTK. This background influences the notes I took for my own purposes. YMMV. 


## Saturday 18 August ##


### Keynote by Mark Ramm ###
Mention of using test to validate marketing and future work. This is similar in concept to the recommendations made in my recent investigations into our system at work - which was to continuously measure various aspects so that objective evaluations can be made of future changes. For example if the build system is changed, is it changed for the better. If we understand those objective measures then we can properly debate things such as: Is a design complexity increase justified if it significantly decreases build times?

Cool comment: *You only have so many heartbeats, why are you wasting them on this shit?*

Don't spend to much time arguing about whether A or B are better. Instead test them to determine objectively which one is better. Obviously relies on appropriate test definitions.

A good venn diagram was presented that helps determine if the thing you are working on is worth working on in the first place. It contained Viable, Feasible, Desirable. with the goal to place your work within the locus of all three circles.

Bizarre image was presented in the talk: [Stained underwear money belt from Amazon](http://www.amazon.com/Hidden-Contents-Travel-Passport-Wallet/dp/B006C8TPNM/ref=pd_sim_sbs_misc_1) - the idea being that you store you money in these horrible looking things when travelling in the hope that no-one would pick those up. Who would have thought that there would be a market for it? Crazy!

He works on Juju at Canonical. What is it? Look it up.


### Visualization of architecture ###
Integrate the output of automatically generated visualisations into the documentation of the product.This is another concept that falls in line with recommendations my team made after our recent investigations of our work system. Ours in particular was to collect complexity metrics for our system at each baseline release. Capturing useful architecture visualisations would be good too.

Interesting concept mentioned: record dynamic call sequence using decorators. This approach could help me generate automatic sequence diagrams that eventually go into design documentation.

Nice visuals that could help newcomers gain an understanding on the design - perhaps.


### Usernames and passwords ###
Presenter works for Mozilla in NZ.
Cool idea presented with Persona for email based login and ISP validated certificates.


### Natural Language Toolkit talk ###
Not sure if I have a use for this, but interesting none-the-less.
Might have some use in document analysis at work.
For my hobby stuff - would be good for writing a twitter bot.


### What's new in science and engineering ###
IPython - really good demo. Check out the presentation video and notes on the pyconau Youtube channel when it comes up. We could totally use this at work alongside the scientists for data analysis and algorithm design. The notebook form factor would be a great way to trade information between us. Really good concept. Comes by default in Ubuntu 12.04 by default.
Look into pandas.


### Building a cloud app in python talk ###
Mentioned Celery as a asynchronous task/job processing tool. This uses RabbitMQ.
Mentioned *fabric* configuration automation. These kinds of tools are sorely needed at my work. Conversation led to puppet, chef, salt. A quick web search for Salt indicates it is built on ZMQ too. Investigate Salt.


### Lightning talks ###
Highlight for me was a really cool tool for recording presentation code into a javascript blob. It is called pias (play it again sam). It is up on github under a username rfk. It records to a js file. This would be really handy for giving code presentations at work.


### Dinner ###
The event organisers had planned a dinner that was included with the price of the ticket. So not only great value but this was a good idea as it let us socialise with more people who are just as enthusiastic and passionate about Python. The dinner was at Peppermint Bay. The organisers had arranged a boat to take everyone down there. Great organisation. It was a pity about the conditions which made for a very chopping section of the trip in which I am sure some people were sea sick. I was feeling pretty ill by the time we arrived at the destination. I considered getting a taxi back to Hobart but persevered and thankfully the trip back was really smooth. Phew! As a bonus, because I didn't drink at all at the restaurant for fear of sea sickness on the return trip, I was up early and keen for the next round of presentations. 



## Sunday 19 August ##

### Keynote talk by Kenneth Reitz ###
Mentioned some of his work which included Legit: a git workflow assistant. Check it out to see if it can help with my git usage.

Presented a concept of preparing all your development projects as open source. This results in concise and decoupled design because you are thinking about the general user, not your particlular use case. No credentials get left in the code. Documentation becomes important.

Code is read approximately 10 times more than it is written. Use Python, it understands this by making the code very clear. No crud.

In your dev projects attempt to accommodate the 90% use case, not necessarily everything, in order to make the API libraries simpler.

Use a layered API approach. key it simple for users. push complicated  API down low.

Recommended to release projecets on PyPI, not just github, because it is the offical Python repository. *Investigate adding my projects to Python cheese shop. I need to understand the release process.* PyPI (Cheese shop) is the expected way to find projects.

Mentioned a project underway that recommends the *right* way to do various things in Python. The offical Python.org is not in a position to do this as it supports all Python. This guide site can have a point of view. Look at [python-guide.org](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/index.html) for best practices on Python. It is developed on github so issues can be raised to discuss better ways. [https://github.com/kennethreitz](https://github.com/kennethreitz)


### Web Server Bottlenecks and Performance Tuning ###
This talk was a bit abstract for me. None of my current work occurs in this area.

### Performance Speedups ###
The perspective for this talk is from the point of view of processing a very large data set. The presenter works with census data at the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Some of these recommendations only come into usefulness on VERY large data sets.
For instance, speedups can be had from setting normal global variables into local scape. For example using lmax = max to reduce the time spent traversing the stack.
Use dicts when processing large lists. Recent Python news demonstrates that alternatively sets can provide even better performance advantages.
Remove trivial logging in long running applications as even a tiny delay adds up when processing really large data.
Potential to use shelve.
Investigate mmap for large file io access. It can be faster than standard file access.


### Triage logging ###
[99designs](99designs.com.au) presented a tool for help with logging faults from servers running web apps. Tech used ZMQ, msgpack, js. Looked good.


### Python powered computational geometry ###
DSTO based presenter.
Rapid prototyping, free open source, scientific support, IPython, 
Ray casting with cgal wrapped to use in python
Potential use for ray tracing visualization at work.
Could this be used to help create models for 3d printers? 3D printers typically use sti file format.
Openscad is a programmers cad tool.


### Working with large data at synchrotron ###
Tech used: Twitter bootstrap, Celery
Devops chef puppet 


### Node shmode - Pythonic real time web ###
Presented a way to provide real time support to web apps by using node.js. This approach was chosen for cross browser support. Currently only Chrome and Mozilla/Firefox support WebSockets. If you don't care abouut IE then Autobahn WebSockets on Twisted should be fine.
An [example](http://gpys.pretaweb.com) was presented. this uses a web socket for communications and some js to access position and orientation information from your device.


### Big data processing ###
Presenter was very enthusiastic (Everything is AWESOME!), but I couldn't follow. 
Bloom filters provide ability for very fast "i in x". Perhaps now superceeded by quotient filters. No Python implementation yet though.
Tech used - zmq, SciPy, NumPy, 


### Neatly Twisted ###
Presented by Josh Bartlett.
Recommended to use defer.inlineCallbacks decorator. This is good because an earlier presenter recommended against this, however I'm not sure if they had really used Twisted much. Similar to me this presenter uses it a lot. It is good to get some kind of validation that the styles I am using are the right/better ones available. The presenters point of view (one I agree with) is that it makes what could potentially be spagetti code more readable and maintainable.

Apparently in python3.3 it will be possible to return a value using the normal *return* keyword. I wonder if this will mean that defer.returnValue will not be needed?

Recommendations: 

* Use twisted stdlib alternatives to prevent blocking reactor.
* Defer to threads for computationally intensive blocking calls.
* Make use of manhole. Set up similar to other normal protocols.
* Testing: trial should be used.


### Lightning talks ###
Check out flask for regex routing and nicer (than default django) templating for smaller service oriented web designs.

One talk mentioned a vb2py sciprt for converting VB to Python. Sadly, I need something like this at work to help remove the last vestigages of VB from our system.


### Conference Closing Comments ###
Sponsorship was mentioned in the closing comments. My work sponsors tons of events. I should investigate whether they would consider providing any sponsorship of this event next year. For reference: sponsorship@pyconau.au.org starting at $1000.

I won an O'Reilly book on [Python and AWS](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920020202.do). It has interesting information about Eucalyptus which can be used to set up your own private mini-AWS cloud infrastructure.

Conference videos will be up within the next week. Check out the Youtube channel for pyconau.


